"Good evening, everyone, and welcome. Thank you again. Good evening, everyone. Again, I'm so
thankful and so grateful. I have, again, this great opportunity to be with you all and discussing
the teaching of the Buddha Dharma according my capabilities.
So, I'm very grateful for that opportunity. So, for that reason, I'd like to thank everyone for
participating and coming together and organizing all of this teaching by the Musmar Buddha Center
in Poland and as well as Yixinongkou Center in Poland.
And I'm so grateful to thank all of you, and friends, and all the members, and everyone who
participated and supported to activate this event.
And so, thank you again. Good evening, and thank you very much, everyone, okay?
Now, we will talk about the Buddha teaching, and that's what you came here, and that's what I'm
here, so we talk about the Buddha teaching.
In order to begin the Buddha teaching or the practices in Buddhism, what did the Buddha show you?
There are three things. Starting the teaching, contemplate on the teaching, and meditate in
practice on the teachings.
That is what is, when we do practice or when we do the teaching of the Buddha Dharma, we do these
three things.
These are known as also three verses, verses that come from the studying, verses that come from the
contemplating and reflecting teaching, and analyzing, and then verses that come from practice and
meditation, comes from that.
In order to begin any of those verses, we should correct our beautiful motivations.
Generally, we all have beautiful motivations. You all come here to like to learn the Buddha
teaching, like to know what is about the Buddha teaching and meditation.
What is, generally, the Buddha teaching is nothing but one's own true nature.
Your true nature, my true nature, in the nature of everything, that's what the Buddha can express
it, point it out.
Buddha didn't tell anything other than what nature it is.
What is the nature of you and me is the nature of your mind, my mind, which is known as, then, low
kindness, compassion, joy, and appreciation.
Under three ways, things are exactly as it is, on a relative level and as well as an absolute level
.
Bring exactly as it is, not understated, not overstated, exactly as it is.
That simple, direct teaching is the teaching of the Buddha. That's nothing else.
That direct, simple, that is your nature and my nature.
That is what we are going to activate it, going forward.
Not let the same, underneath, mix of the duality and the fabrication, habit, patterns.
We like to reveal, bring up that from completely, as it is shining from the bottom, we like to
bring that on the surface.
Really, that every direction, that starts right now with you.
What are those? Those are known as, bring more joy, more appreciation.
Joy and appreciation and both each other, kindness compared to all living beings without any
discrimination.
Then, understand exactly where things are in reality or ultimate levels.
That is known as Vajrayana practice, Vajrayana teachings. We are following that.
It means according to Vajrayana teaching, everything is enlightened status.
There is nothing that is not enlightened. Everything is enlightened.
Enlight is not something strange when making new things, it is not there.
We are revealing that nature exactly as it is.
That is for that reason, when we reflect the teaching, when we start reflecting the teaching,
meditate in the practice of the teaching, always in the teaching said,
bring out the beautiful motivation. That motivation is, that is to start our enlightenment,
our bring up nature. That starts with joy and appreciation.
Joy and appreciation. Joy and appreciation is very important.
We have so many reasons to build joy and appreciation.
This is again, I always tell that and my brother, that brother, beloved teacher,
he also used to always remind me again and again, we have so many things to celebrate the joy
and appreciate it. Many times we are missing the point. We are looking always outside,
looking, looking that what we have really don't kind of appreciate and recognize that and
acknowledge that. We have to acknowledge, we have to appreciate and reflect on that.
So bring more joy and appreciation, both the spiritual level and as well as worldly level.
Worldly level, every time we have a lot of reason to be joy and appreciate it.
We are all are in one of the best countries on this earth, prosperity, peace, freedom,
all that beautifulness. We are this beautiful country and therefore we have reason to be joy
and appreciate it. Spiritual level in the Buddha's teaching said, if you read the Buddha's teaching
,
we have 18 luxurious qualities, 18 luxurious qualities. We have 10, at freedoms, 10 luxuries.
This is not just to extend any of those who are accidental. Truly we have beautiful cause and
condition, circumstances, both of that situation, very, very prosperity, very abundance of luxuries
,
both worldly level and spiritual level, Dharma level. Therefore joy and appreciation is something
beautiful, that this is something we did in the past, good things. And now we should continue that
even activate and glorify what we did past, bring more even better and beautiful product and well,
our future will be beautiful, brightest. Future is dependent upon now. Now is the foundation
of the future, what we like to do that. That's what Buddha's gracious teacher,
Buddha Hekkarman pointed out again and again times. We should take care of now. Now is the time.
Now is in our control. Past is past. We don't really have any control too much. Future is
upcoming things. We don't have too much control, but present is in our hand at each status. We have
the whole, every kind of like situation and circumstance. True, magnificent, beautiful,
is in your hand, is in my hand. Therefore we have the good freedom and favorable conditions that
we really have. Therefore, bring joy and appreciation. It's very, very important.
That is the foundation of the practice. That is foundation of Dharma, Dharma and spiritual.
Whoever have the joy and appreciation, that brings calm and peaceful and a nice happiness.
That's what we want. We want peace and harmony and happiness. And that start with joy and
appreciation. That's so important. Second things are so important things. We must extend our
beautiful qualities, beautiful attitude. We are known as bodhicata. Many of you know bodhicata.
And kindness is a component of all living beings. Even we have such a beautiful qualities. Even
they have such a beautiful qualities. Many of them don't recognize. Still they are suffering. Still
they are struggling. Still they are completely spoiling their goodness things by their own
misdeeds, spoiling. What is that? That is known as the Buddha's teaching, unknowing situations,
ignorance. And that, so many things happening. And then plus there are so many beings who are
really having a lot of difficult troubles. So really sincerely to bring more loving kindness,
complete thought and aspirations, reach everyone's joy and happy peace. Normal or troubled or
difficult or cause trouble or difficult may extend immediately bring more joy and peace,
happiness. Not just a joy and peace for time being, but continually joy and peace, happiness.
All under the disc over there completely innate pure natures. We think that is strongly in the
heart and mind known as bodhicata. And then vedayana teachings is already enlightened. That
also should bring because what we are going to discuss tonight is vedayana teachings.
So we should kind of start that right now. It's not just that they can't wait until some time.
Now is so important. Start that kind of activities now. And therefore, again, all is enlightened.
What is in the universe and world outside or there? There is a form, sound, and mind or the
space. There's only three things. There's nothing more than that. What do you always, is a form,
sound in the mind and the space or mind. There's only three things, three things. And form is
enlightened status. Form is in light, in the code of vedayana teaching, is enlightened.
Form started from dharmakaya. Great emptiness started. Form is not just came like that form.
It's display of the emptiness, dharmakaya. Therefore, it is enlightened forms. Therefore,
in vedayana teaching, you see vedayana forms, vedayana bodies. Vedayana is enlightened status.
And sound is also same thing. Come from the dharmakaya, great emptiness. So it's enlightened
sense. And mind and space is already enlightened. Also, it comes from the emptiness. It's a
reflection of the display of the, from all that from the dharmadhatu or dharmakaya in the
emptiness states. Therefore, it is enlightened. Everything is enlightened status. Only the, our
duality publication kind of beloved that reality of the nature, where things are, duality become
the s like a curtain, beat when the reality is, and where our, our mind is seen. And then just
completely blocked, completely blurred. Otherwise, it is, everything is enlightened state. So those
kind of attitude or those motivation is very important to bring up that, that. Now we just
told what we're going to discuss here in the teaching. Now is the teaching of the Buddha
Shakyamuni of course. Buddha Shakyamuni who came to two thousand six hundred years ago and he gave
varieties of the teachings that according to the reading suits with the individualist,
different individualist. Those old teachings are known as nayana teachings. Nine different levels
of the individualist, the readiness, according to their, their readiness, Buddha kind of like
taught those different nine level teachings. It's like kind of big
buffet styles, the buffet. And there's a big banquet of the buffet, buffet layout,
and whatever you like to eat, you can eat that. So it's not just a fourth and one food to everyone,
but according to whatever you like. If you like to only eat like to eat salad, there is a salad.
If you like to eat, eat like kind of fruit only, there's fruit. If you like to eat chocolate or
there is chocolate and cream cheese and cheesecake and all of that. And then you have to eat like
pastas. There is a pastas and then you like to eat rice, chapati or tortilla and whatever you like
to
eat and vegetarian, non-vegetarian, all the big banquet of buffet that in a way really similar that
Buddha displayed, those old teachings are known as nayana teachings. Nine and all lead to the
enlightenment. Every teaching of what Buddha is teaching with enlightenment. What are all those,
what nature of every teaching is non-violence. It is truth. It is truth, loving kindness,
compassion and kindness, courage, commitment. And that is really the teachings and discover that
nature ignited that nature to the other basis so that everyone find their nature. They are grown,
their basic goodness find. And that is the old teachings, old Buddha layout. And there's all
teachings. Then as I said, nayana teachings. Among the nayana teaching, this, tonight what we're
going
to talk is the teachings on the ninth, ninth. Ninth teaching is the highest teaching, deepest
teaching,
more direct teaching to the true nature of where things are. Others are like kind of Buddha give
according their readiness. So there is again need to go, need to go, need to explore, explore. But
ninth teaching is the direct, the profounder teaching. And ninth teaching is known as then
Mahaati teachings. Atiyoa teaching or Mahaati and the common name is known as the Dokti teachings.
So that is nayana teachings, Dokti teachings. Now Dokti teaching, I will talk really kind
of in his story. I think it's a need to tell a little bit stories. Generally when the Buddha
Shakyamuni give this Dokti teachings. Dokti teaching did not, Buddha did not give Dokti teaching
in the form of the Buddha that as we always see the statues that Buddha begging bowl and
sorry, yellow robes and that kind of forms did not give the Buddha teachings.
Buddha give in the form of the Dharmakaya level, the Buddha give Dokti teachings. Dokti teachings.
So how in the Dokti teachings says, Dokti teachings are presented through three lineages.
And those lineages are known as mind to mind transmission lineage, symbolic transmission
lineage and oral transmission lineage. Dokti teaching or nayana teachings in three different
levels, three different lineage systems and Buddha transmitted these Dokti teachings.
Now the first one is mind to mind transmission lineage through that Buddha transmitted.
And which form, Buddha transform this teaching in the form of Buddha, Samadabhadra. Samadabhadra
is known as, Buddhas can be divided into three Buddhas. Those are known as, many of you know
who must be known and we know that and few of you don't know those are known as Dharmakaya Buddha,
Sambokaya Buddha and Nirmakaya Buddhas. Now three Buddhas. There are also three
Buddhas. It's the same in light beings, but the Buddha appeared in three different poems in order
to benefiting or to transmitting the teachings. Now the nayana, according to Dokchin or Mahadhi
teaching, that what we're going to discuss, Dokti teaching or Mahadhi teaching, this nayana
teaching,
according to that level, these three Buddhas can be divided into nine different Buddhas.
How? This is known as Dharmakaya Buddha can be divided into three more Buddhas
and those are known as Dharmakaya Buddha of Dharmakaya and Dharmakaya Buddha of Sambokaya
and Dharmakaya Buddha of Nirmakayas. Three Buddhas divided even the Dharmakaya Buddha.
Dharmakaya Buddha are divided into three different Buddhas. Now who gave this Dokti teaching?
Dokti teaching or the Mahadhi teaching, I'm using those three terminologies. Mahadhi teaching,
Dokti teaching, ninth yana teaching, that teaching who is giving Dharmakaya Buddha of Dharmakaya.
Dharmakaya Buddha of Dharmakaya Buddha gave these Dokti teachings.
Teachings and where he gave these teachings? He gave the teachings not in this duality world,
world duality, he gave this teaching in the world that which is beyond the dualities,
realm of beyond the dualities. Buddha gave these teachings. To whom he gave the teaching? He gave
the teachings but those those who receive the teaching is there also no other than the really
Buddha Dharmakaya himself. They have similar realization. Similar realization, similar
understanding is known as Auchan like Western Ratnus. Auchan like Western Ratnus of Buddhas.
So teacher is Dharmakaya Buddha of Dharmakaya and the place is a realm of the beyond the dualities.
Ratnus or receiver are all human love of the Western Ratnus,
Muslim or assemblies. They have similar realization and how he transmitted mind to mind
transmission
mission lineage without warding, without vocabulary, without symbolics, he transmitted this Buddha.
And at what time? What time? Beyond the three times. Beyond the past, beyond the present,
and beyond the future. Beyond the three times Buddha transmitted this teaching. That teaching
is teaching of Dhokti, Dhokti, Dhokti teaching. As Buddha transmitted that teaching through that
as the mind to mind transmission lineages to this Auchan like Western Ratnus. Ratnus in the time
beyond the three times. Times. Then and then how the second stage started. Second strategy is
Sambhola transmission lineage. Sambhola transmission lineage. Sambhola transmission
lineage started with the Dharmakaya Buddha of Sambhola Buddha. Dharmakaya Buddha of Sambhola
Buddha. Still is a Dharmakaya state in general way, but within the Dharmakaya divide as three.
So Sambhola Buddha of Dharmakaya, such as the Buddha with dharas, dharas. They transmitted
again similar realizations such as Ratnus of the five Dayana Buddhas. An Auchan like of the
male and female realization beings, peace and wrath of duty. Buddhas appeared. They transmitted
again beyond the world, but through just symbols. Symbols transmitted this teaching in such as
including such a great master, master, garab dodya, so forth. There is these teachings that
so transmitted. That's how this jocchi teaching started in the way, how that teaching came.
Now this, when this jocchi teaching came to this human world, that is around 28 years after
Buddha Shakyamuni's Mahaparinarana, then this teaching, jocchi teaching appeared in this human
world. And that is generally, Buddha Shakyamuni also told before his Mahaparinarana, he told
this sacred teaching will come in the future when the time is ready. There is known as bodhisattva,
bodhisattva, kundaransa. He rose up, when Buddha announced his Mahaparinarana, he rose up from the
audience or the guru, a student. And all great teacher, you give lot of teachings of the causal
jana teachings, teachings that to be practiced and meditated that, but when you are going to tell
that teaching that don't have to make big effort and reach enlightenment, so easy. When you give
that sacred teachings and Buddha said, yes, I did that, I did that, but that teaching that don't
have
to rely too much effort and hard to get easily get enlightened, that teaching will come very soon
after my Mahaparinarana. As Buddha said that, then as he said, 28 years after Buddha Shakyamuni's
Mahaparinarana, then teaching start coming all the sacred teachings. And particularly Zokki
teaching
also then came around that time. That time, who bought this Zokki teaching to the human world?
It's known as the Buddha Shakyamuni in the form of Dharmakaya to give already that teaching. But
who bought this teaching on the human world is known as the famous Zokki master, Garab Dorji.
Garab Dorji bought this Zokki teaching this to human world. And Garab Dorji was born in
west India, known as Odhyanas. He was born, born as a very miraculous, beautiful bird. And when he
was young, and then he began to, he was already like emanate on the radio, but then he began to
perceive so many certain teachings and in bone was to shine completely, understand beautifully
everything. And then he received the teaching entirely, Zokki teaching from Vaidya Sattva,
Buddha Vaidya Sattva, and as well as Buddha Vaidya Pani and so forth. All Zokki teachings he
received.
So that is like, all Zokki teaching came in that time. So around 28 years after the
Buddha Shakyamuni Mahaparri Nirvana, Garab Dorji master, Garab Dorji bought this Zokki teaching
to this human world. And that is really history of Zokki teaching how it came to this world.
And particularly this teaching, this time that I'm focused on this teaching,
teaching is then among the Zokki teaching can be divided into three sections. Those are known
as the mind to mind, sorry, mind sections, sections, Zokkins, space sections, Zokki teachings,
and pit and structure sections of the Zokki teachings. So three different
sections of Zokki teaching. This teaching is very much connected as
mind sections of Zokki teaching. So that is what the brief kind of overview of the teaching. And
now I'll go to the text itself. I think many of you have already this is translated into English.
Maybe you have that, but I will go on this text. And now I will go with the titles. And this text
can be divided into three kind of principal groups. And the title, principal part of the teachings,
and the concluding part of the teaching as a colophonous. So, and who wrote this teaching?
It's the great Zokkin master, and also known as Garab Dourgi of Tibet, and the very famous Zokki
master known as Long Chimpa. Long Chimpa was the one of the great Zokki masters in the Zokki,
or the history of the Zokkin. So other Tibetan Buddhism. And he was a Tibetan. He was born
around 13th century or 14th centuries. And his name was Long Chimpa. And he was one of the great
scholars too, intellectual scholars. He understood all the five different sciences in the Tibetan
use study. Those are known as science of mind, science of the healing, science of art,
science of language, science of logic, and the reasoning thing. So he really understood everything.
His master of all that, that, and he was also created by the Buddha Shakyamuni and Gaurapaya
Masambhava as the greatest, greatest master. Master, as is predicted, he was born in the center
of Tibet, as I said, around the 13th or 14th centuries. And that, and then he became the one
of the great masters of Zokkins, all times, times. And every great master used to call him
Second Gaurab Durya, or Gaurab Durya of Tibet. So he, this is his teachings, this teaching,
he instructed this Zokki teaching from the Zokkin Tantras. And then this is what his teaching.
So the title of this teaching is, what did he say? The evairap, the task letters, the dual shape,
dual shape of pit and stockings of the dual shape that a king of creation of both each other.
That is the title of these teachings. Now, so we say that, what is this? In the Tibet, I read that
Sanchapasen, Sanchapasen means bodhicata, kumji yarpo is a king of all creation, all, all, all,
maybe king of all creating, creating all, and tantri is a priest, instruction, and the title is
dual shapes. And if we go a little bit kind of like roughly these meanings, if I go that,
what means, what means that? Bodhicata. Bodhicata, I already mentioned, you know already that,
but bodhicata can be divided into two, known as relative to the bodhicata and absolute to the
bodhicata. Relative to the bodhicata, absolute bodhicata. Relative to bodhicata is as we've been
discussing, loving kindness and compassion. Compassion, kindness, thought for all sentient beings,
and like to bring them joy, peace, happiness, for that very reason, I like to become the Buddha.
I like to discover my own true nature so that I can benefit for all living beings. That is the
principle meaning of the relative true bodhicata. If we go little details of the bodhicata, what
this
is known as then can be divided into two. Wishing bodhicata, actualizing bodhicata.
Wishing bodhicata means intention. You develop the intention. Best upon love and kindness,
compassion, very beautiful compassion, uncondition, unconditioned compassion, developed. How you
develop the black compassion, how you develop what? You develop known as poor immeasurables.
Many of you know that, poor immeasurable. Immeasurable of loving kindness, immeasurable
of compassion, immeasurable of joy and resources, immeasurable economies. Develop that in heart,
really strongly, immensely beautiful, profound, unconditioned. Love for all living beings.
Why is it immeasurable? Because our love and compassion, this bodhicata is not just
designated areas, partialities. We like to develop that all living beings, living beings are
immeasurable, cannot measure. According to the Buddha's teaching, as far as space goes,
space goes, that far living being exists. As far as many that living being exists,
that much everyone has karma and emotions. As long as they have karma and emotions,
that long they have challenge, difficulty troubles. That much that we are going to
develop the bodhicata. Love that much, therefore said immeasurable loves, loving kindness,
immeasurable compassion, immeasurable joy and resources, immeasurable economies. When you
have that sincerely in our heart, mind, and praying for that, wishing for that, what is
known as wishing bodhicata. Wishing bodhicata. You really wish that to every living being.
What actually means bodhicata is Sanskrit word, you know that. Bodhi means enlightenment.
Jetta means mind or awareness or our intelligence, the intelligence of the enlightenment.
Awareness of enlightenment, mind of enlightenment. That is the word, enlightenment. What is that
mind of enlightenment? I've been discussing this. These four immigrables are enlightenment,
they're not just a regular kind of ordinary things. When you have the true love in your,
our heart, your heart, in my heart, we have the enlightenment. Enlightenment is shiny at that time.
Enlightenment, the Buddhahood is shining. When you have the true comparison in our heart and mind,
enlightenment is shining. And we have the joy, the rejoice in our heart, the enlightenment glowing.
When you have the great economies, enlightenment is shining and glowing and strong and pervasive
in our heart. So it's not just regular. It's so spiritual, but yet it's so simple. It's basic
nature of yours and mine is nothing extraordinary that we have. It's our nature. We're touching,
when we have, we touch that, we're touching to our heart. We are touching to our home best,
sweet home, sweet home. True, that is what it is. That is, you're really exploring your goodness.
When you have love and compassion and kindness for boneless, what emotions are we releasing?
Unnecessary things, anger, jealous, hate report, ignorance, attachment. Those are by saying
something really goodbye. Goodbye. We're really saying that. They are unnatural. They are trouble
makers. They make trouble to us according to the Buddha's teaching from the beginning of this time
until now. They're continually making trouble. It will continually make troubles. They're the very
cause of our karmas, bad karmas. Karmas, we're removing that. Enlightenment is shining in our
heart. Yet, again, as I said, yet is so simple. It's nothing extraordinary that we don't have.
We're just touching to our best. It's our ordinary, our best, our right, our goodness,
our quality, our inner trigger. Trigger, they're really touching to our best. That is known as
wishing both each other. When we practice wishing both each other, how we do, we put that into
training. Training, those training as known as instability, many of you know those are known as
tungli practices, exchanging practices. Those are wishing practices you're putting in action. Not
just wishing that beautiful thought attitude, but something you put in action. That's known as
training of the wishing both each other. So special and so beautiful, so powerful, and also so
healing.
Healing is with healthy emotions, scars, negatives, obscurations, all the anxiety, past memories,
all that, really it will kill. It brings completely rejuvenating ourself,
completely new levels of the beautiful qualities. Therefore, it is so special. It's our nature,
your good qualities, your good nature. It's not something that something only Buddha has or some
some selected guru has that. It's all living being has these qualities. So this is known as
wishing both each other. When you put that action more physically, that is known as actualizing
both each other, and I'm sure many of you know that, actualizing both each other. Actualizing
both each other, how we put this. Actualizing both each other, that wishing both each other, you
put
that in actualizing, put action, action by the physical verbally. This is verbally physical.
How? Through six parameters, six parameters, six parameters, such as generous parameter,
morality parameter, and patient parameters, parameters, and joyful effort parameter,
concentration in western parameters. Best upon wishing that poor boundless. Generous parameter
is best upon poor boundless of this wishing both each other, and morality is best upon poor bound
less,
and patient is best on poor boundless. Every six parameters is best upon poor boundless,
or again I'm using different kind of term, poor boundless, or the immeasurable.
Immeasurable, poor, immeasurable. Best upon that. Therefore, it's called actualizing both
each other. Actualizing both each other, you put according your capabilities. Your capabilities,
readiness of others, and do with capability, but we do with joy, do with courage and commitment.
You would do with rejoice and joy. Joy. That is really about the relative both each other.
Now, absolute true both each other. What is absolute true both each other? Absolute true
both each other is zoky teaching. It's absolute both each other. This whole teaching what we're
going to explain or going through is basically on the absolute both each other. Absolute both each
other is similar as if we use the great emptiness, the great Pandya Paramata. Pandya Paramata
practice,
zoky practices, Mahamudra practices, Mademaka practice, or Zazen practices. Those are known
as absolute true both each others. Actualizing that realization without any grasping and clinging
and focus, relax on the natural state, exactly as it is open, unimpeded, beyond all the consumption
,
the duality, and the aspect, all free from state, inconceivable, inexpressible, and unborn,
unceasing as in the teaching state. Relaxing that natural state is known as absolute true
both each other, which is discomfort. That is really about the both each other. The king of
creations
is the synonym of the mind. The synonym of the mind. Our mind is the creator of everything.
Your mind is your creator of everything, every environment of you. My mind is the creator of
all in my environment. Everything, everything, perception, consumption, aggregates, everything
according to the Buddha teaching, and there's what is called five aggregates, form, aggregate,
perception, feeling, aggregate, perception, consumption, conscience, all that aggregates
are created and reflected from our mind. Therefore, it is mind is the creator of everything.
And our happiness, our joy and peace, and our difficulty challenge, the suffering, the sadness,
all that is controlled and created and propagated, maintained by the mind. Therefore, it is named
as
king of creations, king of creations. Nirvana is created by this, samsara is created by this,
this, there is nothing else in that. Every environment is display of this mind,
mind. So therefore, this is called king of creations. And then this is also known as
all very famous teaching of the Doki teaching known as kubzi-yabu. So this kubzi-yabu teaching
is king of creation, tantal. From there, great master, lunki-pa kind of taught the essence,
adopted, and this, so it's essence of that teaching. And then, taunti is a bit instruction,
so kubzi-yabu is explaining step by step how to practice this meditation, practice.
And that is like jewel ship, is a metaphor named because it's jewel ship, ship that will cross the
ocean of the samsara or ocean of dualities. It will cross the duality, publication, where we are
crossing that, crossing the duality. Ocean also is comfortable as a jewel ship is just every,
every facility, every lucky to call it, so it's not just hard here, we are crossing that
ocean of duality, but with calm, comfortable, uplifting, encouragement, and fulfillment,
advancing, rewarding each time that, so it's really just like jewel, filled with old,
luxurious items in which you perform a jewel ship, that we are crossing that.
So that is a brilliant title of this teaching, but title is very important in Buddhism teaching,
so the title will give the essence meaning of the entire teaching, so therefore we are in a way
capturing the essence meaning of the entirely this teaching, so that is really on that teaching.
And now we go to the text itself, self and it's now, sorry, I just, it may be need.
Sorry. Oh, I have to prepare myself now. I think so. We do the preparations,
then can't go far, so I think I should.
Okay, now this teaching, how this teaching begins, it begins with again, the homage,
this is the (speaks in foreign language) homage, and then he is promising, he's kind of announcing
that I'm going to share you the essence meaning of the (speaks in foreign language)
so there's one word is paying homage, and then second is words is explaining that I will
tell you complete this meaning, meaning of the (speaks in foreign language)
so that is what is paying homage to the Dharmakaya Buddha, the one, the teacher,
great teacher who taught this teaching, Dharmakaya Buddha, I said Dharmakaya Buddha of Dharmakaya,
and that Buddha is what is known as some of the Buddhas, some of the Buddhas, so paying that pay
homage to that great Buddhist Buddhas, and that Buddha is what? He said I just roughly don't
read this, it's translated that, and pure from the beginning and peaceful and pervasive,
uncompounded is the union of the emptiness and a greater wisdom, greater wisdom beyond of the
existing and non-existing pervasive, there's no partiality of the different directions,
so such as poor directions of and poor cardinal directions, and the pervasive without the changing
and unchanging, who is that? That is known as the ordinal Buddha, Buddha, great king of creations,
to you I pay homage, that is a really meaning of this homage. The next one is that his is a
commitment that is explaining that I will teach you or essence the meaning of this long kimbhas,
again great mass of kimbhas, and he said the essence of every phenomenon, essence of everything
is your mind or my mind, essence of everything is the nature of the mind, to discovering directly
nature of the mind in the direct perception, when you discover the nature of the mind in the direct
perception, direct perceptions, there's nothing to go when we say advancing the teaching, advancing
the stages, there's really nothing to advance, then except abiding and perceiving, relax on that
nature of the mind as you proceed directly, it is again, it is enlightened nature, isn't Buddha is
right with you, when you discover this nature of the mind beyond the any publications, perceiving
exactly as it is, that is Buddha, that means that is Buddha is embodiment of loving kindness
and compassion, worship them, free from any duality publications, you're perceiving that,
that Buddha is right with you, with you and right with everyone, when you see that nature of the
mind, that is Buddha, that Buddha, that nature of the mind as everything is completed, says all the
written scholars, when we think about the Buddha, what we say the Buddha is totally enlightened,
Buddha has this power, that power, that realization, this and that, that all is right with you,
when you discover the nature of the mind, it's not coming from outside, newly kind of joined with
your nature or the enlightenment, it's right here, right here, right with you, right with you,
that one teaching that tells exactly as it is, that it is, that is the highest teachings,
that's the highest teaching, that teaching is known as king of creation, Nokumzi Japut Dantara.
Dantara, that teaching I will hear, Nokima said, that I will bring that as like,
like just you can follow easily one after another to the purpose of those proper who are future,
who are interested, like to discover their own nature, for that I will tell for them how to do
that. So that is what Nokima said that I will tell, I will finish these teachings. So that is known
as
like, paying homage and then reactivating his commitment to bring essence of these teachings.
Now, then what how this teach that started, that there is this Buddha Shakyamuni,
Buddha for example, Buddha Shakyamuni is totally enlightened beings, full of kindness and
compassion for all living beings without any exceptions, and also same time he is so kind
and considerable and a full of skillful means, skillful means and kindness and compassion,
skillful means and thoughtful and very concerning of the everyone's, their readiness and their
capabilities or how they can do it. And because of that, Buddhagi,
Buddhagi variety of the teachings, as I said Nainana teachings, Nain, all those different Nainana
teachers, including Athiova or Nainana teaching, these teachings, he gave these teachings according
to those individual's capabilities. Plus he gave the teachings. But the highest teaching is these
Dokki teachings. All other teachings that you compare with Dokki teaching or this Nainana teaching,
all other teachings still not completed, not completed, because says the Buddha give the
according to readiness, the capabilities of the individual is in their readiness, so it's not
really any completed, keep the teaching. So therefore, what many great masters use it,
all the teachings are lined up exactly as a staircase, staircase, staircase has, for example,
nine staircases, nine staircases, everything is connected. The first staircase is so important to
the second staircase, second and first is so important, third staircase, third staircase is
so important and fourth and fifth, but this third and fourth staircase is not reaching to the
second
floor, it won't reach the second floor, but yet is so important. Without that, it won't go up,
therefore it's so important, yet is not important. So therefore, this Athi Vyana teaching is like
at
the staircase, but it's not still complete that they will reach to the second floor. For example,
that I'm using the examples. The ninth staircase, we have that, then you will easily reach to the
second floor. Similar this Nainana teaching, the Athi Vyana teaching, this teaching is a direct
teaching to true nature of our own, your own natural qualities, how to perceive that,
how to discover that, natural, without any kind of like detours or without any kind of like
different
ways, it's directly teaching that. For the third reason and the king of Craig and Dattanta kind
of glorifying the importance of this, this, this teachings, Nainana or the Dokki teaching sets.
And here what this is in the teaching set, set, all those different teachings are taught by the
three different Buddhas, but yet they are still kind of like interpretable meaning teachings,
that still can interpret it, that. So it's not really the final teachings, but this teaching,
the Nainana teaching is ultimate teaching, direct teaching, most simple teaching, and for easy
teaching, it just has nothing to be really kind of like, oh what any, it's just direct, direct,
negative teaching, negative teaching, for that reason, this is the highest teaching. So that is
really of this, how the teaching is so important, this teaching is. And then there's a similar
statement that goes on here, so I won't go this, because it just will take more time, but that is
the essence of these teachings. One, excuse me, what is the time now? At 48, or at 48, maybe then
I will stop here, okay, then I will do continuity tomorrow, so I will try to stop, because at 48,
maybe, or maybe I'll talk a little bit, yeah, maybe. So therefore this teaching, the Nainana
teaching is ultimate teachings, teachings I said so many times, all the other teachings
are that at Nainana teaching, at Nainana teachings, still I say the interpretable, interpretable
means
what? Still it has some other meanings, it's not completely final, that is the ninth is the final,
there's nothing to interpret it, it's a direct teachings, therefore it is ultimate teaching,
teachings, teachings. And now, so therefore that is really about how teaching is so precious,
this teaching, teacher who give this teaching is the Dharmakaya Buddha of Dharmakaya Buddhas.
Within the Dharmakaya Buddha, Dharmakaya Buddha is a, three Buddhas, Dharmakaya, Sambokaya,
Narmakaya, Dharmakaya Buddha is considering the absolute Buddhas. This absolute Buddha
is divided into three Buddhas, as I said Dharmakaya of Dharmakaya, Dharmakaya of Sambokaya,
Dharmakaya of Narmakaya, so three Buddhas, this teaching is taught by Dharmakaya Buddha of
Dharmakaya. The teacher is the absolute ordinal, the ordinal teacher, teaching is the ultimate
teacher, teaching, teaching because it has exactly the nature of the mind,
exactly as it is. The nature of the mind, as Loon Kippa mentioned, I said, is already enlightened.
Your nature of the mind, my nature of the mind, everyone's nature of the mind is totally
enlightenings, total enlightenings. Why then is we are not enlightened? That is then in the
teaching
is because of the dualities. Duality is blocking of our nature. Duality is like ever used example
as the cataracts, cataracts. The cataracts is blocking the vision, view of the realities
and the duality, cataract duality is what? Therefore it's called the obscurations.
It's blockage, obscurations is when it's not connected with nature. It's like clothes in the
sky and when the clothes is the sky, overcasted the sky, what it does? It blocks the building in
the color of the blue sky and the sun and the moon and the stars. But clothes is not the nature
of the sky. Clothes is temporarily, arises circumstances, through the circumstances,
it arises. It arises, it is not permanent, it's going to finish. You can change. Similarly,
duality is not natural, not natural. It's temporary, it's created, it's propagated.
For that reason the Buddha teaching what he said, delusions, it's deluded, delusion created. This
came like by this delusion and it is here now, it's blocking the image but it's something that
we can remove, we can change, we can remove. When it's removed, that nature of the mind, your mind,
my mind, everything, is totally enlightened. And enlightened, exactly the same as the Buddha
shaktamari, Gaurapayama sambhava, Gaurapayama sambhava, Gaurapdoor jai, all the sammana bhatras,
whatever example he used, male Buddha, female Buddha, exactly the same, same. That technique,
how to do this practice, how to revert that nature and remove that duality, that characteristic
duality,
that tells by this teaching, this teaching how to do that. Teaching, that is what this teaching,
this is very special, it is important, it is vast, this ultimate, this direct teaching,
that is what I explained. Now that is really meaning of this importance with teachings that
now how, now in order to talk this teaching, teaching then Unchiba again made three
highlighted. What are those three highlighted? The teacher, one who's going to talk this teaching,
the student one who's going to receive this teaching, and how they should then, after that,
how they can do practices. So that means going to talk about the teacher, what qualification of the
teacher should be, what audience or the practice, practicing how they should be, how they really
prepare themselves to be as, to handle like these teachings, teachings, and then when they're both
kind of quite good, how they should practice now, that is the great master of Unchiba is going to
lay out, exactly at ease, and the first is going to tell about the teachers, teachers.
Teachers should be this way, one who understanding the meaning of the Buddhism and non-Buddhisms,
kind of clearly understand it, and within the Buddhism also understanding
some degree of all those at Jana's teachings. See the distinctions between each Jana, this,
and what, and this, and that, and why this Dokki teaching is so special. So kind of see that also,
clearly understand that, and the knowledge level. So that means, as I said early in the Buddhism,
say the three wisdom, wisdom that comes from the studying, wisdom that comes from connotations,
wisdom that comes from the meditation and the practices. So teacher, one who should have
those three wisdoms, started wisdom, contemplation wisdom, and meditated and practice the wisdoms,
wisdoms, and according wisdom levels, wisdom levels, and then same time, teacher, one is also
kind and compassion. Kindness, compassion fills the heart with love and compassion,
all simple, both each other, as we discussed, related to the both each other and absolutely
through the both each other, and the gentle, peaceful, humble, and simple, simple, and what
teacher talking is also practicing. That teacher is practicing that teaching, not just a talker,
lecturer, but also the practitioner, the one who practices that teaching, teaching,
teachings that, teaching that, and particularly have the understanding and understanding of the
meaning of the Doki teachings, Doki teaching in the practice and realize it, and in lineage
instructions or lineage blessings. This Doki teaching, as the lunkimba is explaining later here too
,
this teaching is the lineage teachings, teaching that is not just developed overnight or few years
ago, but this is the long-lasting running like Mississippi River, that from the ancient time
of the olden time, without the broken, without the looted, and the preserved, exactly as the
start of the time of the Garab Doji to this human world, maintained and preserved with their full
of
love and joy and devotion and courage and commitment, kicked close to their heart as their heart,
as
their breathing, as their breathing is really preserved, honored with that, and preserved
actualized that realization, and here to the next day, and that's how the teaching continued.
As we said, the Buddha Shakyamuni came to this world 2,600 years ago, but teaching is continued,
and that means all the practices kept preserved, exactly clever, call it, power, nutritious, or the
meaning, essence, really they kept, until now, kept, and how they kept, not with anger, not with
jealous, not with violence, not with the kind of I'm better than you, your walls, I'm great,
this and that way, but humble, simple, kindness, compassion, joy, and appreciation, Shakyamuni,
and devotion, and with treasures, and practice, mature themselves, glory, glory themselves,
and help to them, glory others. It's kind of like running like Olympic torch, light continue,
one after another, it brighten, lighten up there with joy, and fulfillment, and faster next, next
stages, and continually there, for, for there, and faster, next, next, this, this lineage, so
therefore
have the lineage, blessings, all that, and it makes sense, that, and also, so that, and,
and then also, when teacher, teach to that, also with kind, kind of meaning, explaining that nice,
and beautiful, according with their, kind of their understandable meaning, with explaining that,
and
kind of understanding, and then also not kind of like caught by the worldly efforts, worldly fame,
reputation, greed, this and that things, kind of concerning with the world things, and greedy,
and obsessed with all the, the world material things, kind of like that, that is not the teacher,
teachers, those who are kind of with more, more simple, and more line of the, exactly,
Buddha Shakyamuni, when you, I mean, even not exactly that, but as much as the Buddha Shakyamuni,
so all those great Arhatas, great those masters, that as that, those are known as they, who had
those qualities, are known as qualified, qualified teachers, so those are the qualifications of the
,
of the teachers, teachers, and then teaching, a student, who also has a similar thought,
full of them, the student also has, so also, kind of, students are honest, also very, kind of,
compassionate, kindness, they like to explore their meaning of lives, and lives also like to
help to the other beings, also some courage, and commitment, the confidence, teaching that is not
just a kind of like, as a resilient and neglected, that someday they're going on, and appreciate,
it really put that somebody on the, on their, their practices, or some review of their effort
to put that, and with full of joy, and devotion, courage, and kindness, also both each other,
as we discussed, that, that related to both each other, to give somebody the kindness,
a compared thought, thought, and, and also have kind of, also joy, and joy, and lot of courage, and
confidence to the practice, those are known as qualification, the teachers, the students, and then
this, this is teaching, so those are known as qualified, qualified teacher, and qualified
students, students, students, and they are also, what in the teaching said here, that said, who has
also devotion, and who keep also smile, or the kind of, counter the level, also really beautiful,
great joyful effort, and great compassion, and also the joys, and some degree of also not too
much, kind of, attractive to all the material things, all things, more material things,
and less arrogance, more respect to the teacher, and to the sangha members, friends, and always
kind
of honor the teachings, teachings, and have some commitment to do practices, and those are really
essence, like as said here, say the qualification of the students, so that is the word, like really
about the qualification of the teacher, and the qualification of the student, and then I'm going
to stop here, if you have some questions, I'm happy to discuss it for a few minutes, and then
otherwise
we'll do short meditation, and dedicate the marriage.
Anyone?
Yes, please.
Stairs, the staircases, so other practices, what you're saying with the Mahayana,
within the Mahayana tradition, will be like up there, but not to the second floor,
and so the, um, I've heard this word before, and it's a difficult word for me.
What?
Yes, I've said nine yana, nine, number nine, number nine, sorry,
yana is a Sanskrit word, Sanskrit word, yana means weekal, weekal, ninth level weekal,
it's weekal, weekal, okay, so then what did you say, Mahayana? You said something about Mahayana.
This is old, the old tradition, right? Which one?
Of course, the old teaching is the same time, same time from the
Buddha's time, so it's definitely the old in that level, and Dzokin is of course old teaching,
and Dzokin teaching said it's not just Dzokin teaching, it only came with this human world in
the two thousand six hundred years ago, but Dzokin's teaching is happening in the celestial realms,
rams all the time, okay, so when you say ninth yana, is that compared to something, there's a lot
of
grounds and paths and things, is that aligned with those? Growned in path, yeah, there's definitely
ground, and this definitely Dzokin is also has ground and path, but, but Dzokin, yes, what's he?
Is that, is that, is that relevant to Dzokin? Yeah, it is relevant, but it is Dzokin level,
ground yana is the same thing as other yanas, but Dzokin is so fast, so fast, so fast, so fast,
F-A-S-T, I think, so fast, F-A-S-T, no, past, no, Dzokin is so fast, Dzokin is so fast,
as we take examples, every going to walk to the, from here to the east coast, every going to go to
the east coast, there's how many different methods, going walking, walking, walking, and it still
will
go, you will reach this coast, then there is riding horse, and you will get this coast, then there
is,
this what's called, this train of course, all you will reach too, and motor car will reach,
and then you will go by what? Go by with, with the plane, plane, aeroplane, you will get,
and if you go by, Bremen aeroplane, maybe past, I don't know, I don't know, and then if you go to
the Concord, Concord, you will go, and of course it's not existing now, if you go space shuttle,
no, I think it will take, and maybe in the future will develop, you can go through a
text machine, text, in the future, I'm talking future, future stay, and just one instant,
or you, you will be, you will be, what I call, I mean we will, we will be scanned through the scan,
boom, and that is like Dzokin, even though it went all that, I mean it just went there,
all this distance, it went through, through, from Portland, to Idaho, and then Wyoming, Colorado,
and whatever, and then the Mid East, and then it's really, but it went so fast, it's just,
so you really don't have to count so many those, path and ground, that is like Dzokin, so instant.
Of course, you want to realize Dharmakaya, but that is not the big realization, it is
Samodhakaya, because that's where all the communication happens, is that it?
Say that again, no, no, say that again, I keep in here, no, no, the police, please.
I think I understand, to have been told, that in Vajrayana Tantrayana, they say that,
of course, you want to understand or experience Dharmakaya, but that the big thing,
big realization, is actually the Samodhakaya, because of the symbolism,
that's where the communication happens. Who said that?
But I shall tell them when I say it, they say who they are. No, no, I think so,
I never heard that, I'm not just joking. I'm pretty sure I heard this at the college in town, okay?
No, I never heard that, I don't think it's true, when you, when you, when you reach Dharmakaya
status, you reach Dharmakaya, when you reach Dharmakaya, what's called, in the general Buddhist
terminology, there is called tukayas, tukayas, you heard right, tukayas, two rupakayas, rupak,
Dharmakaya and rupakayas, tukayas, and what is rupakaya? When you achieve the Dharmakaya,
then you instantly achieve the rupakayas, and the rupakaya is what? Sambokaya and the namakayas,
and in order to achieve that realization, what do you do during the generally Buddhist
terminology, or is it okay too? And you do two accumulation merits, two merits, what's the merit
in accumulation merits? And by the power of the, of course they are all connected, it's not really
completely different from each other. By the power of the merit, what's the merit? You achieve the
Dharmakaya, and the power of the accumulation merit, you achieve the rupakaya. With all the
accumulating, completely two, two accumulation, you will not going to achieve the enlightenment
in general, in the Buddhist teaching. And so therefore, in order to reach the Dharmakaya,
you already reached the Dharmakaya. For that reason, the great master, future Buddha, Maitriya,
Maitriya gave the teaching known as five treatise, five treatise, one of the treatises known as the
Pandya Paramata treatise, the ornament of the Pandya Paramata. They're teaching what Maitriya says.
When you reach the Dharmakaya status, without moving or without moving from Dharmakaya status,
you emanate instantly two kyas, such as rupakaya and the narmakaya. Without moving the rupakaya,
sambhokaya, you again emanate this narmakaya, and in the narmakaya level you perform 12
prans for deeds, such as the Buddha Kya Kya Mani performed. So Buddha Kya Kya Mani, according Mahay
ana,
according Vayayana, when Buddha Kya Kya Mani reached, when Buddha Kya Kya Mani was born,
in India, that time, already he is enlightened. And this is a narmakaya Buddha.
Narmakaya, so therefore, I mean, I never heard any Buddhism teaching that you're reaching the
Dharmakaya, sambhokaya hood, and not Dharmakaya hood, and that is really, I mean, wrong inform
ations.
You do experience Dharmakaya, but the important part is that, is of the sambhokakaya, and if,
I think this might be tied to, I mean, you've heard this, I'm sure, I don't know, that there's
a concern about reaching direct perception too soon, such that you haven't accumulated enough
merit, because I've heard it said that if you reach direct perception, you will not get.
So that means, if you reach very fast to New York, you're not, you, where you got, you got a New
York
program east coast, very fast, you didn't get enough, you didn't get through. You're not, you didn
't,
you didn't got New York. I'm using east coast, I mean east coast. If you got fast to east coast,
you're not got east coast, because it didn't go too long enough. Because, but you didn't have time
to gather merit. To get merit, that means, if you get Dharmakaya, if you got sambhokaya, that means
,
you got, already got the merit, with the merit as like blink of eye, you utilize it. Therefore,
therefore, in the Doki teaching, it's very highly capable of the practitioners. So it's not like
you have less compassion. No, no, the Doki teaching, the Doki practitioners, full of compassion,
full,
when the sign of the realization is that it's measured by the compassion. So what is the thing
about, something about the capability. What? I thought you said something on the first about,
that each, that each of us would achieve, we have what we are already applying. What? That we are,
in fact, already enlightened. Yeah. Okay, okay, we're like, we're in like nature, and that each
will realize two degrees of their own capability. Is that right? That's true.
I feel like they agree with their own capability. Is there, are there some that are more
enlightened
than others then, or? Yeah, these are true. So some are unsurpassed, and some are not?
Yeah, some are very, some are very, that, that measure, why enlightened, not enlightened is
measured, how much obscuration, the duality you removed. Some are really, very much, really good
removed. They are very close to the enlightened. Some are not removed duality, then still they are
heavy in the samsara. It's not measured by the nature of the mind, but it's measured by the,
of the duality, delusion, how, how much you. So if you became enlightened, you become enlightened,
but still,
and realize enlightenment, are you saying? What? Say that again. Question. Are you saying that you
can become
realized under enlightenment, direct perception, but still carry a duality that obscures your
enlightenment more than other enlightenment? I don't understand. But I'm saying this,
everyone has the same nature, the enlightened. According to Zoki level, I mean, it's already
enlightened, you are enlightened, but duality is blocked. Duality, duality, yes. I get it, if they
're,
if they're for everybody, until you are, until you remove it, and you see your own enlightenment.
Yeah,
until you remove it, you will see, according to clothe in the sky, if it's a very heavy clothe,
sunlight really become, here daylight become very dark, but if some kind of clothe the light now,
according that sunlight began to shine, according that, so that is just a similar example. When
your
duality as much as you remove, the enlightenment shine. What is enlightenment? Enlightenment is
versatile, enlightened with the computer, enlightenment low in kind, that is shining,
you become more kind, more complete, more intelligent, more common sense, more, more,
more intelligent, more smart, that is the enlightenment. Okay, thank you, everyone.
Thank you, I hope you understand all these profound discussions.
With the short meditation, and then dedicate the marriage again.